We're going to start off the screenshare portion of this class
inside my usual testing ground for Shopify themes, Chris Testing Shop.
Obviously, you're going to need a Shopify store to work on.
This is the case in any of my other Shopify theme development classes.
Keep in mind here, guys,
that we are focusing on a very particular area of Shopify theme development using Vue.js.
We won't be covering things such as CSS,
how Shopify works, or the other things that go along with Shopify theme development.
It's expected that you know how to use Theme Kit.
It's expected that you understand CSS,
HTML, a little bit of JavaScript.
We're going to be focusing specifically on Vue in this class.
That's why I've created a starter project for us to work through in this class,
as we don't want to build a theme from scratch,
but we also want to use a theme that is as simplified as possible.
The way we're going to access this theme is by going to my GitHub account.
So github.com, and I believe,
it's just "Christopher Dodd".
Here we go. Inside Popular repositories,
you can see Skillshare,
but there is a new one I've created here called "vue-class-theme".
We'll head back to the Skillshare repository in just a second.
But what I want to do here is grab this "starting point" in
my vue-class-theme repository here and bring that into our code editor,
which for this class,
is going to be VS Code.
Of course, you can use whatever code editor you want,
I just prefer to use VS Code.
It's free and it's powerful. Why not?
I'm going to open up VS Code,
click "New Window" here,
and run a New Terminal.
The way to get this repository is to grab
the URL here and then "git clone".
There we go. That will be somewhere in our file structure,
wherever we've got our terminal set up to go.
For me, it's going to be here in my user accounts.
There you can see, I'm just going to move that onto
the desktop just to make it a bit easier.
Then now, I can open this up.
I'm just going to open,
head to that folder,
and here it is.
Now, as is the case with all Shopify theme development,
we're going to have to set up a config.yml file.
I've covered that a few different times in the different YouTube videos I've done.
It's been covered in the first class on Shopify theme development here on Skillshare,
so we're not going to go through Theme Kit.
What I have got already inside the shared folder here,
I've got my config.yml.
I'm just going to bring that in.
Of course, the config.yml file has
all the authentication details and the theme ID in order to actually log into the store.
I'm going to close that one down once we have that.
The next step for us is going to be uploading this theme to our Shopify storefront.
What I'm going to do for that is zip this up,
do Compress on a Mac.
Now it's zipped up, going to go back to my testing shop, click "Upload theme".
Select the zip file. Hit "Upload".
That'll take a little bit of time to upload and then we'll see it come up.
I'm just going to remove that capital V. Now,
we should be able to click "Preview" and see a preview of our theme.
On the homepage, there's nothing,
but what I've got here is two links,
one to shop the tee or shop shoes.
Now, we'll talk about the store data in just a second,
but let's have a look at what we've got so far.
We've got our t-shirt here and then we've
got our collection page where we have a range of shoes.
Now, of course, this is all based on store data.
I mention this in pretty much every class,
this is pulling from the information you have inside your store.
You're not going to have the exact same information as me,
but I've tried to make it as simple and as easy for you to get
started and get this up and running on your store as possible.
What I've done is I've exported all these products.
Just have to go back to GitHub,
go into the Skillshare repository.
Here shoes and shirt CSV,
if we import that into Shopify,
then we're going to have all of these products in our store.
Here's a little video of what it looks
like when you're importing that information into a new store.
Now, you should have your theme uploaded and you
should have these products uploaded as well.
If you want to follow along,
you can just use whatever products you have in your store right now if you want,
that's up to you.
But now we've got the theme here.
Let's connect our Theme Kit.
As I usually do, going to open up,
customize, grab the theme ID of this theme.
Go into our config.yml file,
update the theme ID here.
To confirm that that works,
I'm going to open up a new terminal and run theme watch.
Now, you can see we're connected to that theme and we're now watching for changes.
The next step is getting our environment set up for Vue.
But before we do that,
I just want to familiarize you with the project as we haven't so far.
It's a very simple one.
This is based off a starter theme that's quite bare.
You will see that there aren't a lot of assets,
there aren't any snippets here.
In fact, there are no sections either.
This is a very simple theme.
Obviously, if you have a production theme,
you would have more folders and files here.
We're just keeping it simple for this class.
First thing I want to draw your attention to,
is the theme.css file.
I've already created these style rules.
I didn't want to spend time in this class creating CSS,
so I've put this all in a CSS file already for us.
There's a theme JS file here.
We can put in our general JavaScript for the theme in here,
but we're using Vue and plugging in to store data.
It's not really required for this class and we
won't be actually using this file in this class.
But this is an option as well for your general JavaScript.
I've also got a site logo here.
This is just Chris Testing Shop.
No matter what your store is,
if you're using this theme,
you will have the same logo unless you change this file.
I've got a trash icon for the cart page,
and I've got this script here,
which you can find here on GitHub if you wish.
Otherwise, it's included in the project already.
It's a way to do the money formatting in Shopify via JavaScript.
Otherwise, you are stuck with Shopify liquid money formatting
and that's not going to work when we're using JavaScript and Vue.js.
That's your assets folder.
I want to bring your attention next to the layout file.
We've got a pretty basic layout file here.
I can see I've included slick slider,
which has been removed.
That'll be removed for your version of the theme.
Basically, what we've got is theme CSS included,
that's the only extra CSS that we've got included.
We're including this Shopify money script so it can format Shopify money values.
I've included jQuery as well.
JQuery is handy for doing our AJAX requests.
Otherwise, if we use Vanilla JavaScript,
the code ends up looking messy,
and it's just so much easier to use jQuery.
I've included jQuery there as well.
Those are a few dependencies.
We're going to need shopify-money to format the money values
and jQuery for the AJAX requests.
Again, we can use Vanilla JS,
but jQuery is a bit nicer.
That's about it for dependencies.
Now, it's time to actually bring in Vue.js.
The way we can do that as stated in the docs is,
after our jQuery tag here,
add in this script tag which brings in Vue.
Now, if you're wondering where I got that from,
it's in the Vue Documentation.
This is a good opportunity now to show you where you can find the documentation for Vue.
The thing you really need to be aware
of is that in this class I'm going to be using Vue 3.
There's three different versions;
Vue 1, Vue 2, Vue 3.
Maybe if you're watching this at a much later date,
there's more versions after that,
but at the time of recording,
it is currently at Vue 3.
Here you can see you're browsing documentation for Vue 2 by default.
You need to click here for Vue 3 documentation.
As you can see, the site looks pretty much exactly the same,
but your URL here is different.
Click on "Get Started".
This is your reference for anything Vue throughout the class if you get stuck.
As you can see down here,
just the one before under installation,
here is the script tag that I got.
That's the exact same as what we've got here.
The next thing we want to install is Vue DevTools.
Trust me, this is so helpful when developing for Vue.
Vue DevTools adds a extra tab here in our DevTools inside Chrome.
I'm sure there's versions for other browsers as well,
but I recommend you do use Chrome when doing this web development.
We're going to add an extra tab here that will allow us to inspect
our Vue data layer and also our computed properties and all sorts of things.
It helps a lot with figuring out what data
and things are happening in Vue while we're developing.
For that, I'm going to look up the Chrome extensions store, Chrome Web Store.
The thing to note here is if we're using Vue 3,
then we have to use the beta version here.
This is the one that works perfectly on Vue 1 and Vue 2,
but we need to use the beta if we're going to be using Vue 3.
Obviously, this will change depending on when you're watching this class.
But currently to inspect Vue 3,
we're going to need to use this version right here, the beta.
I'm going to click "Add to Chrome",
hit "Add extension", and you can see it has been added to Chrome.
Now let's open up our theme and preview the theme.
I'm pretty sure in order to get that Vue DevTools to work,
we're going to have to create an actual Vue app.
Says Vue.js not detected.
I've included the package,
but we haven't created an app yet.
Just to prove that this is all working,
what I'm going to do is go into the first template.
We're going to be working on the product template and open up some script tags.
Then inside here, I'm going to create a Vue app.
Remember, in the theory section of this class,
we talked about how we're doing a one-to-one relationship
between the apps and the templates in our Shopify store.
We're going to create an app called ProductPage to go along with this template.
We're going to open up an object and then we're going to create an app from that object.
Below this object, we're going to write vue.createapp,
and then load in our object there.
Then we're going to mount it to our DOM by specifying the ID of the elements.
I've already set it here to product-page.
Using CSS syntax with the hash,
putting in the product page there.
Now, guys, just to note here that this is Vue 3 syntax.
If you're looking at examples online,
the syntax might be different because that person might be using Vue 1 or Vue 2.
Just keep that in mind.
This is the newest syntax for Vue 3.
If you're looking at old examples,
it'll look a little bit different to this.
But your point of truth here is you can always go back to the documentation,
make sure you're on version 3.
Then if we go down to introduction,
you can see here that this is the same format.
We might actually get an error if we don't include a data object.
I'll just check that first.
Let's go to our product template.
Let's head over to console.
Doesn't seem to be any issues so far.
Head into the Vue tab,
and here we go.
We've got this root element here.
There you have it, guys. We have just created our first Vue app.
We can inspect it now in the Vue DevTools,
it's going to be the final tab probably in your DevTools over here on Chrome.
Now we're in the box seat to start creating our first Vue app.
Without further ado, I'll see you in the next video where we build out
this product page app and add some interactivity to this page.
As you can see, we can change the variant here,
but it's not changing it anywhere on the page.
If I click "Add to Cart",
it's just going to add the first variance.
We need to fix that and we'll do so in the next video. I'll see you there.